here's the start of the briefing the
business secretary Alex Sharma just
coming in professor Stephen Paulus and
also Sarah Albion from the Health and
Safety Executive good afternoon I'm
joined today by professor Stephen house
national medical director of NHS England
and Sarah album who is a chief executive
of the Health and Safety Executive first
I want to update you on the latest data
on the corona virus response two million
seven thousand one hundred and forty six
tests for corona virus have now been
carried out in the UK including eighty
five thousand two hundred and ninety
three tests carried out yesterday two
hundred and twenty six thousand four
hundred and sixty three people have
tested positive that's an increase of
three thousand four hundred and three
cases since yesterday eleven thousand
six hundred and five people are
currently in hospital with corona virus
up from eleven thousand four hundred and
sixty-five the previous day and sadly of
those tested positive a corona virus
across all settings thirty two thousand
six hundred and ninety two have now died
that's an increase of six hundred and
twenty seven fatalities since yesterday
this is of course devastating news for
families across the United Kingdom and
we all need to stay alert and control
the virus I just want to remind people
of the details of next phase of our
fight against corona virus that we sent
out this week
return to the first slide in order to
monitor our progress we are establishing
a new co vyd alert level system with
five levels each relating to the threat
that to the level of threat posed by the
virus the alert level will be based
primarily on the r-value and a number of
corona virus cases an intern that alert
level will determine the level of social
distancing measures in place
the lower the level the fewer the
measures the higher the level the
stricter the measures the show social
distancing measures remain critical in
our efforts to control the virus
throughout the period of lockdown which
started on March the 23rd we have been
at level four meaning a curve in
nineteen
is in general circulation and
transmission is high or rising
exponentially but thanks to the hard
work and sacrifices the British people
in this lockdown you have helped to
bring the our level down and we are now
in a position to begin moving to level
three in careful steps as you'll see on
the next slide we have set out the first
of three steps we will take to carefully
modify the measures gradually ease the
lockdown and begin to allow people to
return to their way of life but
crucially whilst avoiding what would be
a disastrous second peak that overwhelms
the NHS after each step we will closely
monitor the impact of that step on the
are and the number of infections and all
the available data and we will only take
the next step when we are satisfied that
it is safe to do so
step one from this week those who cannot
work from home should now speak to their
employer about going back to work
you can now spend time outdoors and
exercise as often as you like you can
meet one person outside of your
household outside provided you stay two
metres apart step two from June the 1st
at the earliest as long as the data
allows we aim to allow primary schools
to reopen for some pupils in smaller
class sizes non-essential retail to
start to reopen when and where it is
safe to do so cultural and sporting
events to take place behind closed doors
without crowds and then step 3
no earlier than July the fourth and
again if only the data says it is safe
we aim to allow more businesses and
premises to open including potentially
those offering personal carriages
leisure facilities public places and
places of worship many of these
businesses will need to operate in new
ways to ensure they're safe and we will
work with these sectors on how to do
this as you'll see from slide 3 having
taken the first step in carefully
adjusting some of the measures and our
advice to people on what to do
we have also updated our messaging we
are now asking people to stay alert
control the virus and save lives
yes staying alert for the vast majority
of people still means staying at home as
much as possible but there a range of
other actions we're advising people to
take people should stay alert by working
from home if you can limiting contact
with other people keeping distance if
you go out 2 meters apart where possible
washing your hands regularly wearing a
face covering when you're in an enclosed
space where it is difficult to be
socially distant for example in some
shops and on public transport and if you
or anyone your household has symptoms
you all need to self isolate a slide for
shows if everyone stays alert and
follows the rules we can control
coronavirus by keeping the are down and
reducing the number of infections that
is how we can continue to save lives and
livelihoods as we begin as a nation to
recover from coronavirus and to underpin
this in the workplace we have published
new co vid 19 secure guidance on working
safely available to UK employers across
eight work settings which are allowed to
be open and where their employees cannot
work from home this also includes
guidance for shops which we believe may
be
a position to begin a phase reopening at
the earliest from the first of June
firms unions industry bodies and the
devolved administrations have all fed
into this guidance to give businesses
and their employees that confidence they
need to work safely and I believe we
have reached a consensus in doing that
we've also worked with public health
England and the Health Safety Executive
to develop best practice on the safest
ways of working across the economy the
guidelines outlined practical steps for
employees to take including carrying out
a curve 819 risk assessment in
consultation with employees or trade
unions a downloadable notice is included
in the documents which employers should
display in that workplace to show
employees customers and other visitors
that they have followed the guidance
we've also provided practical steps for
employers to consider such as putting up
barriers or screens and shared spaces
creating fixed teams or partnering to
minimize the number of people in contact
with one another and frequent cleaning
of work areas and equipment between uses
to reduce transmission to support
employers and employees through this the
government has made available up to an
extra 14 million pounds for the Health
and Safety Executive equivalent to an
increase of 10 percent of their budget
this is for extra call center employees
inspectors and equipment if needed we
also know how important the job
retention scheme has been in helping
businesses through this difficult time
and today the Chancellor has announced a
four-month extension of the scheme to
help provide certainty to businesses to
date seven and a half million jobs have
been furloughed protecting livelihoods
across the nation until the end of July
there will be no changes to the scheme
then from August to October the scheme
will continue for all sectors and
regions of the UK but with greater
flexibility to support the transition
back to work
employers currently using the scheme
will be able to bring employees back
part-time and as the economy reopens
we will ask firms to start sharing with
government the cost of paying people's
salaries to be clear the same level of
support of 80% of people's current
salary up to two and a half thousand
pounds will continue to be met but
through a shared effort between
employers and government we'll be
setting out more details on the changes
before the end of the month throughout
this pandemic I have been struck by the
way people have looked out for one
another these measures are produced in
that spirit so it employers I say uses
support and guidance to know you're
doing the right thing and work with your
unions and workers to keep each other
safe out of workers I say we are looking
out for you we want you to feel
confident that you are financially
supported and returning to a safe
workplace because in this time like no
other we all need to work together
safely as we rebuild our economy thank
you Steve
could I ask you to take us through the
rest of the day nice lights please Thank
You Secretary of Satan good afternoon so
is the Secretary of State has said it's
critical that we all continue to comply
with the rules around social distancing
as we move into this next phase the
benefits of doing that have been clear
and are shown in the data slides which
I'm going to present this afternoon in
an updated format to the format that you
have previously seen so the first slide
looks at social distancing and how
compliance with those social distancing
rules has been undertaken by the by the
public the chart which is data from the
Department of Transport shows data
reflecting the use of transport both
public transport and private motor
vehicles and as you can see as you've
seen before we are still seeing reduced
levels of usage particular
or public transport in the chart in the
slide also is some data from the Office
for National Statistics opinions and
lifestyle survey this survey taken in
this data from the latter half of April
showing for instance that 44 percent of
employed adults are working from home
compared to 12% last year 82 percent of
adults only left their home for
permitted reasons if at all a 92 percent
of adults avoided contact with
vulnerable people so a high level of
compliance with the social distancing
rules and going forward it's critical as
I've said that we continue to comply
with the social distancing rules that we
are asked to comply with the next slide
is data on testing and new cases within
the UK the top chart shows daily tests
which has increased over the last few
weeks
towards capacity of capacity above
100,000 and the daily confirmed cases
shows the number of positive cases that
are being detected in that testing
program and as I've said before the
number of daily confirmed cases is
remaining static and that is good news
in the context of an increased capacity
and an increased number of tests and
suggests that we are seeing a stable
level or a reduced level in proportion
of the confirmed cases as respects to
testing the next slide shows data on
bets of course every death is a great
tragedy and my heart goes out to the
friends and family and loved ones of
those who've died this shows daily
deaths from in all settings of those who
have tested positive the key thing here
is to look at the seven-day rolling
average the data does vary from day to
day particularly as we come out of
weekends when there is a reporting lag
but you can see on the seven-day rolling
average that the number of daily deaths
is reducing the next slide is data from
the Office for National Statistics and
this shows deaths where coronavirus was
confirmed or suspected so this is not
just cases
I tell individuals where our test has
been positive this is also inclusive of
people where in the death registration
process as suspicion of kovat 19 has
been included in in the registration
this is a very latest data I think that
was published today there is a lag on it
goes up to the 1st of May but this again
shows the additional deaths that are it
can be included when you look at
suspected cases not just test confirmed
cases and in the bottom chart you can
see how that is changing over time in
the ons data and you can see that in the
settings of hospitals in particular and
now in care homes we are seeing a
reduced number of deaths a falling
number of deaths that are either
confirmed by positive testing or
suspected and noted in the death
certificate in the next slide we're now
moving on to hospital data so this is
data in the top chart from NHS England
and in the bottom chart from all four
nations and this is showing the
estimated admissions with coronavirus
into English hospitals you can see in
the top chart that that number has been
declining since the middle of April and
again that is a reflection on the fact
that we are all complying with those
social distancing measures and that in
turn is translating into a fall in the
most critically ill patients those
individuals who unfortunately require
care in our critical care facilities and
you can see that in all four nations in
the bottom chart the proportion of
patients in critical care has been
reducing and that trend is reducing
quite consistently now over time and
that is also reflected in the absolute
numbers of patients in critical care
beds with kovat 19:00 and then finally
in the next slide broken down into
countries and regions of England this is
the number of people in hospital with
Kovan
19 so currently 11,000 605 that's the
reduction from 13,000 606 or a reduction
of 2000 over the last week you can see
that reductions be most marked in London
but it all is also now occurring in
other regions in England and in the
other UK devolved administrations so
again this reflects the success of the
social distancing measures and all our
compliance with those measures and in
order to ensure that these trains
continue to to be downwards both in
hospital missions and in deaths it is
critical that in the various phases of
coronavirus we comply with those social
distancing instructions that we've all
been given thank you great Steve thank
you very much let's move to the question
so I think the first question from the
public is from Hannah in Rosendale I
would like to know if the UK government
have considered universal income for UK
residents of working gauge considering
that the fair loss scheme has cost such
a large amount plus an increase in those
seeking benefits is implementing
something that is not means tested at
least being discussed and is it's
something that is on the cards as a
future solution well Hannah thank you
very much for that so I think the first
thing to say is that you know there is
an almost amount of support that the
government is providing to businesses
and individuals earlier today the
Chancellor of course announced an
extension of the furlough scheme and
that will provide a huge amount of
reassurance I think was very important
in the way that we provide support
particularly more widely in the welfare
system is that we targeted at people and
in a universal basic income is an issue
that's been tested in other countries
and hasn't been taken forward right the
next question is from Alan in Newcastle
if I read Alan do we have your question
Alan from Newcastle asked after already
surviving intensive care and ventilation
from covert 19 I asked what plans the
government have for clinically
vulnerable members
population once the twelve yielding
weeks have ended on the 15th of June I
think the first thing to say is that we
need to do everything we can to support
individuals and we have set out the
measures that we require for people who
are shielding and indeed in the the
workplace guidance we have produced
we've also looked at one ball groups but
I wonder what this even you might want
to take this question on further
yes well the first thing is to say I
pleased I am Alan that you have you know
fortunately you've P ative caught Cove
in nineteen but you have got through
hospital and through intensive care and
ventilation and I'm sure you will be
grateful to all the NHS staff who manage
you through that illness and I think
it's particularly important to recognize
their contribution especially today
because today is the International Day
of the nurse it's 200th anniversary of
Florence Nightingale and I think it's a
really important day for us to recognize
all the work our nursing colleagues have
done to manage you and and all the
patients who've come through our NHS
facilities are needing care because they
have caught Kovach 19 I'm sure I'm sure
you would want to say that in terms of
going forward as you know we have asked
the particular groups in our population
who are at highest risk from coronavirus
so that that is in particular those with
conditions that put them at risk so
people with cancer people with organ
transplants because they have drugs that
suppress their immune system people with
severe lung conditions such as cystic
fibrosis so so for that group that we
are shielding and have asked for 12
weeks to stay at home and avoid all
possible contact I think it's been
really important that during the the
first that the peak of this virus in
April that we have protected those
particularly vulnerable members of the
population we will need to continue
doing that as we get through the next
few weeks I think
really that will need to be kept under
review but I think it's really important
to say that we are not through this yet
the virus is still circulating it is
reducing in the population the our
number is below one and we intend to
keep it that way but while it is in the
community clearly those at highest risk
are still vulnerable and I think we
would all want to make sure that we do
everything we possibly can to protect
them so it's very difficult to predict
what will happen over the next few
months but I think the key thing is that
while the virus is still circulating we
all have a duty to ensure that we do all
we can to keep those at highest risks
safe from this virus great thank you
Steve and just ant island it'll be very
difficult for very many people who are
being shielded who are not able to see
members of their family it is difficult
but this is about protecting them and
this is ultimately about saving lives I
think we'll move to the the journalists
questions
Simon Jack from the BBC Simon so many we
can't hear you you may be on mute hey
someone would do that for me
how wrong I was as business secretary
you know that some businesses simply
cannot operate economically viable under
social distancing rules for example
hospitality many of them are predicting
zero income this year you're asking
businesses to start to contribute
towards the furlough costs after July
what happens if they can't so some of
what I would say is that firstly I think
the the furlough scheme extension has
been really welcomed by businesses by
employer organizations by trade unions
and I think that's right and it's given
people reassurance that actually they're
gonna be secure financially and I just
say that you know it will have been
eight months from March until October
where we've provided that security and
that's been absolutely the right thing
to do
the Chancellor said that he will set out
more details later in the month on this
issue
but I think for now what businesses will
be very pleased with is that they've got
certainty which is something that I know
they've been looking for and certainly
all the conversations I've had
I know that they have welcomed this this
change so I could follow up yes just
quickly it's over it's an enormous
intervention probably the largest single
intervention the government has engaged
in you're paying the wages of over seven
million people
the government's conceded that not every
job can be saved and that's true of
these seven and a half million jobs here
do you acknowledge that there are
hundreds of thousands potentially over a
million people who are effectively now
unemployed but just don't realize it yet
well I think it will depend on the
support they're providing overall and
how quickly we can come out of this
particular situation I mean the reality
is the reason we have provided this
support and so we're talking about the
grant schemes that have been operating
almost nine billion pounds over nine
billion pounds now paid out the support
that's provided through the bounced back
loans through the other extensions and
loans that have been put in place and
the reason we have done all of that is
precisely so we can keep people in rolls
in their workplace so that when we come
out the other side we're able to bounce
back of course as a chance to source
technology we don't be able to protect
every single job but I think by any
international comparison the fact that
we're supporting seven and a half
million people the furless scheme should
be something that you know should be
universally welcomed thank you Jane
Simon right I think we moved to poor
brand ITV pool yeah thank you business
echoing I ask you about care homes most
of which you'll be aware our businesses
and and therefore do you actually fall
under your remit they're telling us
tonight that many of them are on the
brink of closure in fact one is closing
its doors this evening because the
financial crashes of kovat 19 care homes
say there isn't enough funding it's not
getting through to them so what more
will you do to help keep them open so
thank you for that question Paul look I
think it is a difficult time for
business I completely understand that
and you know every day I talk to
businesses I talk to business
organizations and we are listening very
hard and we aren't providing that
support the Chancellor today has
announced as explain
the further scheme which will help all
businesses it'll help care homes and
indeed you've also seen the increase in
terms of the loans that have been
provided so I give you some statistics
in terms of the bounce-back loan scheme
the cumulative value of the approved
facilities is over 8 billion pounds the
coronavirus business interruption loan
scheme over 6 billion so there is
support that we are providing and we
will continue to do that and what I
would recommend to any business is to
have a discussion with their banks and
see whether they are going to be
eligible for the support that we have
provided would you say back many of the
schemes that you mention aren't really
relevant to care homes they don't need
to fill though they staff they need
their staff more than ever and it's not
as if business is being interrupted by
Kovach 19 if anything they are just
desperately trying to get through this
pandemic their busier than than ever so
I just ask you again I mean are there
any extra measures that the government
will be coming up with specifically for
care things to help make sure they don't
close well I think what we're doing in
terms of supporting care homes is also
ensuring that we get PPE to them we're
also making sure that we are able to
provide testing through mobile testing
to support that staff and also those who
are in the care homes and we will
continue to do that and of course we
keep all our policies under review but
what I would say to you again is that if
you look at the measure of the support
that we have provided to business by any
international comparison it really is
very very favorable thank you very much
for that Paul let's move to Bend Kentish
it lbc been thank you good afternoon
secretary of state the mortality rate
for people in their 60s in their 50s
sorry is more than 20 times higher and
out of people in their 20s and yet when
it comes to the advice you've issued
about going back to work tomorrow it
applies the same to everyone under the
age of 70 why despite the very different
risks have you cooked ogor taken a
blanket approach and are you asking
employers to take into account in
conjunction with workers those sorts of
risk factors like age when deciding who
should go back to work and what roles
they should be doing and if I could ask
a related question my own statistics
it's just over a month since government
scientists predicted that a death
so in this first wave in the UK would be
somewhere between 7,000 and 20,000 the
figures are released this morning
suggest the excess mortality in that
period has a surpassed already 50,000 do
you think that initial modeling was
flawed and if not are you able to say a
little bit about why you think that
figure is so much higher than that
predicted by members of Sage last month
thank you
thank you Ben well let me let me take
the question on on workplaces in perhaps
Steve you might want to take the second
part of the question just in terms of
workplaces that look I mean AB see every
single death every mortality that takes
place whether it's in the workplace or
elsewhere is completely something that
we would definitely absolutely not want
it to happen and it is a tragedy but
what I would say to you is that that is
precisely why we have worked to produce
the workplace guidance that we have done
and we've done that through a basis of
consensus we've talked to over 250
stakeholders as part of that process and
that's involved the devolved
administration's the unions workers
business representatives businesses and
we have come up with a set of proposals
which is a framework to support
businesses across the UK and it is
absolutely the case that absolute every
single workplace has a duty to keep
their employees safe and that is why we
have made it very clear that we want
people to undertake a curve in 19
reassessments and to make sure they
involve their employees but as part of
that process and to involve unions if
they are unionized and it's also the
case that and I might ask Sarah to come
in on this point is that if an employee
feels unsafe they should talk to their
employer and if that doesn't produce a
result they should of course contact the
Health and Safety Executive or indeed
their local authority and we have made
sure that we are providing additional
funding to the HSE for precisely that
reason so you want to take that
particular point before we go back to
Steve sure I think the thing to be
really aware of in conducting risk
assessments is an employer needs to have
to the evidence and the scientific
information which been given by
government about the different cohorts
of people and their individual
vulnerabilities so she'll be well aware
the government has described effectively
a group of people who are so vulnerable
that they're in the shielded category
and who are asked to remain at home and
there are a second category of people
who are because of their clinical
personal situation more vulnerable
should they contract convert coronavirus
and they've been asked to be
particularly scrupulous in following the
social distancing guidelines and the
other guidelines and in conducting a
risk assessment an employer needs to
have regard to those things and also
then to trying to ensure that those
employees that it has who are in the
more vulnerable category but who are
still working are facilitated to be
particularly scrupulous in following all
of those guidelines and that should form
part of their risk assessment clearly
things about different cohorts of people
who have different vulnerabilities is
under constant constant review by Sage
and the other scientific advisers and in
the event that a different group is
discovered to be more vulnerable and
those recommendations changed and we
would expect employers to keep that risk
assessment up to date and to make
appropriate arrangements for their
employees great thank you that so Steve
do you take the second part of the
question so thank you Ben so it's all on
the question of age as you rightly have
pointed out the severity of the way this
virus affects people does increase with
age including unfortunately the risk of
death in fact it increases through all
ages and it's at its various highest in
our most elderly members of the
population in their 80s and 90s but I
think it's important to say that it's
not just age there are other risk
factors as well including existing
medical conditions obesity you will have
heard us talk about - and unfortunately
ethnicity which again we are we are
looking into so I think it's not a
single risk factor as as is often the
case it's looking at those risk factors
in the round and of course that's
exactly the reason that we have asked
the most vulnerable the highest risk
our population to shield as I described
in responsive to Allen's question from
Newcastle so I don't think it's sensible
just to simply look at a single risk
factor it's important to look at at the
range of risk factors and on the
question around the predicted number of
deaths in fact the original reasonable
worst-case scenario that was produced by
Sage predicted around half a million
deaths a very large number of deaths
that were likely to occur if no action
was was taken to try and control the
spread of the virus so the fact that the
social distancing measures were
introduced in March has meant that the
peak that we saw in April is many many
thousands of deaths below that that
original reasonable worst-case scenario
and I think that shows how effective
those measures have been and clearly
going forward what's important is that
the measures that are put in place avoid
that second peak that was one of the
five tests of course the government has
set and it's by keeping the odd numbers
you know below one that drives down the
rate of new infections in the population
and that in turn drives down the number
of hospital missions and deaths but it
was a very large number of deaths
500,000 that was originally modeled in
the original reasonable worst case
scenario great thank you for that Steve
let's move - Nigel Morris at the I Nigel
um good afternoon
business secretary you say - Britain's
workers that we're looking out for you
so could you help me with the scenario
of an unscrupulous employer dragging
staff back to work before their
workplaces are truly safe for them under
those circumstances do workers have the
right and receive some support in terms
of wage subsidies from the government
and I've also got a question for
professor powers NHS guidelines which
was set out last month
relating to relatives being there the
death of a loved ones pretty vague
basically it's left to individual trusts
to decide shouldn't this area be
revisited to give close relatives that
guaranteed chance to say goodbye to
their loved ones under these
circumstances great now Joe thank you
very much for that look I mean employees
as I've said have a duty to keep the
employees safe in the workplace that is
absolutely enshrined in law and of
course if somebody feels that their
workplace is not safe they have to take
that up with their employer and of
course if they don't feel that they are
getting any traction there that they
absolutely should get in touch with the
Health and Safety Executive all the the
local authority and indeed in the
guidance that we have produced we have
set out how they can get in touch with
the HSE either by email or indeed by
phone and the HSE will absolutely take
action and I'll ask Sarah she wants to
comment further but that will include
spot checks on employers as well but
what I would say too is that I have
obviously been conducting a lot of
discussions in the preparation of this
guidance and what it struck me
particularly is for the very many
employers that are still open where they
have people coming into the workplace
the who worked incredibly
collaboratively with trade unions with
employees to keep their employees safe
and I think you know it will be a very
very small number of workplaces where
people may feel like that but of course
if they do they can follow through an
action will be taken so so as you say
Secretary of State I think it's
important that employees do try to solve
things with their employer if they
possibly can but we absolutely recognize
that there will be some employers who
don't do the right thing or don't know
what the right thing to do is and there
we absolutely are there if people want
to contact us and to make a complaint
people have of course been contacting us
already because many businesses have
been working throughout this period of
lockdown and actually our experience so
far is
that it's it's rather more that
employers haven't understood the right
thing to do than that they're
deliberately trying to do the wrong
thing and in the vast majority of cases
when our inspectors have got involved
employees have been only too willing to
do the right thing and we've been
following up every time an employer has
told us they've made changes and they've
made an improvement to the workplace not
only with the employer to ask them to
show us what they've done but with the
original complainant to check that they
are now satisfied that their employer
has done the right thing and in the
absolute vast majority of those cases
employers have made the right decision
have done the right thing to the
satisfaction of their employees there
are a small number of cases where we're
continuing to pursue that further and we
will certainly take enforcement action
if that's required great thank you sir
Steve doing a second part yes sir thank
you now you'll see I know just how hard
and heartbreaking it is for relatives
who have not been able to be with their
loved ones at the time of death I can't
imagine how hard that is and as you
rightly said we issued guidance a number
of weeks ago as we were going into this
epidemic to restrict visitors to
hospitals and I think it was important
that that that was done because it's
really important that we we protect
everybody from this infection
particularly as more and more people
were coming into hospital of course it's
right that local organizations have done
some discretion in certain circumstances
we can't produce guidance that fits all
circumstances in all situations and even
within a hospital there will be areas
which are harder to allow people into
than other areas I'm sure that guidance
will evolve over time as we come out
from the peak and we get in to lower
rates of infection within hospitals but
what I can say is is for all our NHS
staff they will find this hard to they
will absolutely want relatives as much
as possible to be with loved ones and
I'm sure going forward local
organizations will be thinking about how
within the guidance they can do as much
as possible for relatives great thank
you very much No
for those questions I think we now turn
to Alex Morales at Bloomberg Alex
secretary of state thank you very much
and you've mentioned several times that
you're working very closely with the
unions and your government now needs the
goodwill of those unions to encourage
people back to work as a gesture of good
faith would you drop a commitment in
your manifesto to restrict the actions
of unions and a second question for
Sarah Alvin if I may you mentioned
enforcement on employers what penalties
are at your disposal if employees don't
comply with with the requirements area
at a risk assessment and don't make
their workplaces safe great Alex thank
you for that what we are focused on
right now is working collaboratively
across the piece whether it's with
unions or indeed employers or employees
to provide the support that families
need in this country that businesses
need so they can be in a position where
they can bounce back when we get back to
to Dome allottee and that work will
continue as I said in terms of my
interactions with the unions I have a
regular dialogue and you've seen the
response that they've provided both to
the workplace guidance and indeed to the
job retention scheme and this is a
collaborative effort and we will
continue to take this as a collaborative
effort and as we look to produce safer
working guidance for other workplaces
which are not currently open my
commitment is very clear is that I want
to continue to work with all parties and
that absolute includes the unions as
well so there's a range of different
penalties that are capable of being
taken so the inspectors can require
businesses to do certain things
enforcement notices so requiring them to
take particular kinds of action in the
most extreme circumstances if there is a
risk of serious injury to an individual
employee they can issue a notice which
prohibits certain activities from taking
place and breach of those kind of
enforcement notices is essentially a
criminal offense and we can prosecute
people who
fail to do the right thing Alex thank
you very have a comeback please yeah yep
sure so Secretary of State just does the
manifesto pledge to crack down on the
powers of the Union same base well annex
as I said what I am focused on right now
is making sure that we get through this
particular pandemic to make sure we
provide the support and work
collaboratively and frankly that is
across the piece that all colleagues in
government are doing that the the prime
minister the the first secretary
absolute everyone is focused on working
together and let me give that commitment
I will certainly continue to be doing
that with the trade unions thank you
very much so I think the final question
is from Matthew Lodge at the
Lincolnshire live and Lincolnshire echo
Matthew Thank You Secretary of State the
loosening of lockdown restrictions
allows people to drive to other areas
for outdoor activities and so some bail
on the beach a number of people from the
Lincolnshire Coast have told us they are
worried about this new guidance will and
they will lead to an influx of visitors
exposing them to a greater risk of
infection but they will also see minimal
economic benefit of this as hospitality
and tourist accommodation businesses
will largely remain closed so firstly
what is the panel's message to people
who do plan to travel to our coastal
areas and to the residents of those
areas who fear they will be exposed to
greater risk and secondly can the panel
give any clearer indication on when
hospitality businesses in tourist areas
might be able to reopen and whether
there'll be any additional support
provided to them whether this be before
the lockdown is over or after they're
back up and running great Matthew thank
you very much for that question and of
course I think as the Prime Minister
said we are taking baby steps
rather than giant strides in terms of
the way we go forward we're being
cautious but of course what we have said
to people is that they're able to now
travel but we've also made very clear
that this is not about going and staying
somewhere overnight and we've also been
very clear about how they should
interact with people outside their
household as well
what I would say in terms of the
hospitality sector look I know it this
is actually very very difficult for
hospitality leisure parts of the retail
sector this is really very very
difficult and that's why one of the
first things that we did was to ensure
that we've provided a one-year rates
holiday we've also made sure that we're
providing support through grants almost
over nine billion pounds of grant
support has gone out to small businesses
and of course we will continue to do and
have a look and see you know how we can
support businesses but you have to look
at the full measure of interventions
that we have put in place and as I say
once again by international comparisons
that is incredibly favorable in terms of
when we open hospitality businesses
which i think is the is the point you
were making I think what we all
understand is that we absolutely want to
avoid a second peak you know people
across our country in Lincolnshire
across our country who worked incredibly
hard to make sure that we managed to
suppress the R factor and that is so
vital and I think people do understand
that across the country of course you
know it is very difficult for businesses
very difficult for individuals but
people do recognize that we need to
continue to do that and I'm confident
that people will do that and if we're
able to do that then of course we will
move to a phase where we're able to open
some of those businesses but I think the
worst possible thing for business would
be right now in terms of confidence in
terms of future openings is we allow the
R factor to rise and as a result of that
we had a second peak so I'm just saying
conclusion is that we know that it is
difficult but that is why we're
providing support that is why the chance
has put forward the support that he has
done and of course I will continue to
talk to businesses in the hospitality
hospitality and measure sector as we as
we go forward and see whether we can try
and provide and make sure that they're
getting that right level of support in
terms of schemes that we have in place
already I don't know see whether you
wanted to mention the R factor and what
the science behind this well well simply
as I've said before that in
all parts of the country it's important
that compliance with social distancing
rules whatever phase we're in is is
complied with in order to ensure that
the transmission rate is kept low and
the rate of infection is declining and
not rising because if he does rise below
above 1 for a sustained period of time
it will put pressure on health services
I know I know the health services in
Lincolnshire and I know the particular
challenges of health services in a
predominantly rural and very spread out
community I visited pilgrim hospital in
Boston not so very long ago and I taught
staff there I know under normal
circumstances the particular challenges
they have in health care so I think it
is absolutely critical that we keep this
virus under control and finally to pay
tribute to all health and care staff in
Lincolnshire who I know have been doing
a magnificent job in very challenging
circumstances in that particular setting
of a mainly rural part of the country
they've done an absolutely wonderful job
and it's all our responsibilities in
keeping the hour below 1 to ensure that
they can continue to do that that great
work and not come under increased
pressure great well thank you all very
much
we've come to the end of this press
conference and can I just reiterate once
again thank you for everything that the
British public is doing to make sure
that we suppress this virus and the key
message going forward is stay alert
control the virus save lives thank you
so there we are that latest daily
briefing from Downing Street coming to
an end let's just take a look for you at
the key points that briefing led by the
business secretary along sharma and the
key points really that the UK death toll
has risen by six hundred and twenty
seven to thirty two thousand six hundred
and ninety two those the latest figure
Department of Health now Alex Shara also
said that England would be able to move
towards level three of the new alert
system in careful steps referring there
to measures announced by the prime
minister on Sunday the government
confirmed that it has once more failed
to hit its daily target for 100
and covet 19 tests a total of 85
thousand 293 tests were carried out
yesterday
mr. Sharma rushed to work with employees
and unions to develop safe ways of
reopening following the lockdown
he added that the extension of the
furlough scheme to the end of October
gives business certainty an NHS England
medical director Stephen powers has said
that the number of kovat 19 deaths is
continuing to fall but he did add it was
still critical that people continue to
follow the social distancing guidelines
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dovecote UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News